



Media Over QUIC                                                   W. Law
Internet-Draft                                                    Akamai
Intended status: Informational                                  I. Swett
Expires: 16 August 2026                                           Google
                                                           S. Nandakumar
                                                               M. Zanaty
                                                                   Cisco
                                                             V. Vasiliev
                                                                  Google
                                                                A. Begen
                                                                Z. Gurel
                                                      Ozyegin University
                                                                G. Simon
                                                               Synamedia
                                                        12 February 2026


                Dynamic Track Switching for MOQT relays
                     draft-wilaw-moq-dts4moq-latest

Abstract

   TODO Abstract

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://wilaw.github.io/dts4moq/draft-wilaw-moq-dts4moq.html.  Status
   information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-wilaw-moq-dts4moq/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Media Over QUIC
   Working Group mailing list (mailto:moq@ietf.org), which is archived
   at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/moq/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/moq/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/wilaw/dts4moq.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 16 August 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Subscribe parameters
     2.1.  The SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter
     2.2.  The DTS-ACTIVATION parameter.
   3.  Workflow
     3.1.  Client workflow
     3.2.  Relay workflow
   4.  Conventions and Definitions
   5.  Security Considerations
   6.  IANA Considerations
   7.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   This draft adds the capability of Dynamic Track Switching (DTS) to
   Media over QUIC Transport [MOQT].  Dynamic Track Switching allows a
   relay to dynamically switch which groups are forwarded from among a
   set of subscriptions.  One use-case enabled by DTS is Adaptive
   Bitrate Streaming (ABR), in which time-aligned media tracks are
   switched at group boundaries based upon available throughput
   estimates.

   DTS is enabled and disabled by the subscriber.  The definition of the
   switching sets and the metadata required to implement the switching
   rules are defined by either the subscriber or the original
   punblisher.

2.  Subscribe parameters

   We introduce two new message parameters to enable Dynamic Track
   Switching.

2.1.  The SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter

   The SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter (Parameter Type 0x41) MAY
   appear in a SUBSCRIBE or REQUEST_UPDATE message.  This parameter
   assigns the accompanying subscription to a DTS switching set and
   specifies a waiting time-limit.  The parameter body is serialized as
   follows:

   SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT {
     Switching set ID (vi64),
     [Throughput threshold (vi64),
     Selection time limit (vi64)]
   }

   *  Switching set ID - an integer specifying a switching set.  The
      value zero is reserved to indicate no switching set.

   *  Throughput threshold - the minimum throughput, expressed in
      integer kilobits per second, necessary to select this
      subscription.  This value MUST be omitted if the Switching set ID
      is zero.

   *  Selection time limit - the maximum amount of time, in
      milliseconds, which a relay MUST wait after the arrival of the
      first candidate group in a switching group, before this
      subscription is disqualified as the preferred selection.  This
      value MUST be omitted if the Switching set ID is zero.

2.2.  The DTS-ACTIVATION parameter.

   The DTS-ACTIVATION parameter (Parameter Type 0x43) MAY appear in a
   SUBSCRIBE or REQUEST_UPDATE message.  This parameter enables or
   disables dynamic track switching for a specified switching set.  The
   parameter body is serialized as follows:

   DTS-ACTIVATION {
     Switching set ID (vi64),
     State (1)
   }

   *  Switching set ID - an integer referencing a previously defined
      switching set.

   *  State - a value of 1 activates dynanmic switching for the
      specified switching set and a value of 0 deactivates it.

3.  Workflow

3.1.  Client workflow

   1.  The client decides, through a catalog or other out-of-band
       mechanism, which of a set of tracks it wishes to enable for DTS.

   2.  The client selects an integer identifier to label this set.  This
       identifier MUST be unique within the MOQT connection.

   3.  For each track, it issues a SUBSCRIPTION and appends a SWITCHING-
       SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter.  Within that parameter, it communicates
       the set identifier, the throughput threshold and the time limit.

   4.  On the last SUBCRIPTION, the client also appends the DTS-
       ACTIVATION parameter and sets it value to 1.  Dynamic track
       selection is now active for the switching set.

   To disable dynamic track selection for a given switching set, the
   client sends a DTS-ACTIVATION parameter with a state value of 0 on a
   REQUEST-UPDATE message.  This action leaves all subscriptions in that
   switching set still active, but with a Forward state of 0.  To re-
   enable dynamic track selection for that set, the client sends a DTS-
   ACTIVATION parameter with a state value of 1 on a REQUEST-UPDATE
   message.

   To remove one track from a switching set, while leaving the other
   tracks active, the client issues a REQUEST_UPDATE message with the
   request ID referencing the subscription it wishes to remove and a
   SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter with a Switching set ID of zero.

   To add a new track to an existing switching set, the client issues a
   SUBSCRIPTION and appends a SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter, with
   the Switching set ID poiniting at the existing switching set.

3.2.  Relay workflow

   1.  Upon receiving a SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter, the relay
       adds the subscription to the specified switching set, creating
       the switching set if it does not yet exist.  The Forward state of
       the subscription is set to zero.

   2.  Upon receiving a DTS-ACTIVATION parameter with a state of 1, the
       relay beings active track selection.  Active track selection
       implies that the relay monitor the incoming new groups as well as
       maintain an estimate of the throughput available in the
       connection.  This throughput estimate SHOULD be applicable over
       the maximum Group duration of the tracks being switched.

   3.  When the first Object 0 of new Group N of track T arrives at the
       relay, the relay selects the preferred track to forward from the
       switching set.  The preferred track is the track with the highest
       throughput threshold smaller than or equal to the current
       throughput estimate.  The relay sets the Forward state to 1 for
       this track and to 0 for all other tracks in the switching set.
       If no tracks in the switching set satisfy this condition, then
       all tracks are set to a Forward state of 0.  No content will be
       delivered until the decision is re-evaulated at the next Gorup
       boundary.

   4.  If the track T happens to be the preferred track, then the relay
       forwards all Objects from that Group and no futher evaluations
       are required until Group N+1 arrives.  If the track T is not the
       preferred track, then the relay caches the Group of track T and
       starts a selection timer.

   5.  If Group N of the preferred track arrives while the selection
       timer > selection time limit of that track, then the relay
       forwards the preferred track, the timer can be stopped and no
       further evaluations are necessary.

   6.  If Group N of the preferred track has not arrived by the time the
       selection timer reaches the selection time limit, then the relay
       selects a new preferred track by removing the previously
       preferred track from its candidate list and re-applying the logic
       of step 3.  If Group N of the new preferred track has already
       arrived, then it is served from cache, irrespective of its
       Selection time limit.  If Group N of the new preferred track has
       not yet arrived then the selection process repeats at step 6.

4.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

5.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

6.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

7.  Normative References

   [MOQT]     Nandakumar, S., Vasiliev, V., Swett, I., and A. Frindell,
              "Media over QUIC Transport", Work in Progress, Internet-
              Draft, draft-ietf-moq-transport-16, 13 January 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-moq-
              transport-16>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Authors' Addresses

   Will Law
   Akamai
   Email: 2762250+wilaw@users.noreply.github.com


   Ian Swett
   Google
   Email: ianswett@google.com


   Suhas Nandakumar
   Cisco
   Email: snandaku@cisco.com


   Mo Zanaty
   Cisco
   Email: mzanaty@cisco.com


   Victor Vasiliev
   Google
   Email: vasilvv@google.com


   Ali Begen
   Ozyegin University
   Email: ali.begen@ozyegin.edu.tr


   Zafer Gurel
   Ozyegin University
   Email: zafer.gurel@ozu.edu.tr


   Gwendal Simon
   Synamedia
   Email: gsimon@synamedia.com
