



Media Over QUIC                                                   W. Law
Internet-Draft                                                    Akamai
Intended status: Informational                                  I. Swett
Expires: 21 September 2026                                        Google
                                                           S. Nandakumar
                                                               M. Zanaty
                                                                   Cisco
                                                             V. Vasiliev
                                                                  Google
                                                                A. Begen
                                                                Z. Gurel
                                                      Ozyegin University
                                                                G. Simon
                                                               Synamedia
                                                           20 March 2026


                Dynamic Track Switching for MOQT relays
                     draft-wilaw-moq-dts4moq-latest

Abstract

   Adds the capabaility of Dynamic Track Switching (DTS) to Media over
   QUIC Transport [MOQT].

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://wilaw.github.io/dts4moq/draft-wilaw-moq-dts4moq.html.  Status
   information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-wilaw-moq-dts4moq/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Media Over QUIC
   Working Group mailing list (mailto:moq@ietf.org), which is archived
   at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/moq/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/moq/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/wilaw/dts4moq.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 21 September 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  The SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter
   3.  Content requirements
   4.  Workflow
     4.1.  Client workflow
     4.2.  Relay workflow
   5.  Security Considerations
   6.  IANA Considerations
   7.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   This draft adds the capability of Dynamic Track Switching (DTS) to
   Media over QUIC Transport [MOQT].  Dynamic Track Switching allows a
   relay to dynamically switch which groups are forwarded from among a
   set of subscriptions.  One use-case enabled by DTS is Adaptive
   Bitrate Streaming (ABR), in which time-aligned media tracks are
   switched at group boundaries based upon available throughput
   estimates.

   The definition of the switching sets and the metadata required to
   implement the switching rules are defined by the subscriber.  The
   subscriber also activates and deactivates switching on a given set.

2.  The SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter

   We introduce a new message parameter to enable Dynamic Track
   Switching.

   The SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter (Parameter Type 0x41) MAY
   appear in a SUBSCRIBE or REQUEST_UPDATE message.  This parameter
   assigns the accompanying subscription to a DTS switching set, sets a
   throughput threshold and throughput fraction and tells the relay
   whether it should begin actively switching the set.  The parameter
   body is serialized as follows:

   SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT {
     Switching set ID (vi64),
     Throughput threshold (vi64),
     Set throughput fraction (vi64),
     Activate switching (1)
   }

   *  Switching set ID - an integer specifying a switching set.  A track
      MUST only be assigned to one switching set at a time.

   *  Throughput threshold - the minimum throughput, expressed in
      integer kilobits per second, necessary to select this
      subscription.

   *  Set throughput fraction - the fraction of the connection
      throughput that should be allocated to this switching set,
      expressed as an integer 1 <= N <=10, such that the set will be
      allocated N/10 of the estimated connection throughput.

   *  Activate switching - 0 if the client will be adding more
      subscriptions to the set or 1 if the client is complete and the
      relay should activate switching.

3.  Content requirements

   For tracks to participate in a dynamic switching set, they

   *  MUST be time aligned at group boundaries.

   *  MUST hold equivalent and independent versions of the same content,
      encoded at different bitrates.  DTS is not a solution for
      switching between Scalable Video Coding (SVC) layers.

4.  Workflow

4.1.  Client workflow

   1.  The client decides, through a catalog or other out-of-band
       mechanism, which of a set of tracks it wishes to enable for DTS.

   2.  The client selects an integer identifier to label this set.  This
       identifier MUST be unique within the MOQT connection.

   3.  For each track, it issues a SUBSCRIPTION and appends a SWITCHING-
       SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter.  Within that parameter, it communicates
       the set identifier, the throughput threshold, the set's
       throughput fraction and the activation state.  The activation
       state SHOULD be 0 for all but the last track to be assigned to
       the set.  The set's throughput fraction SHOULD remain consistent
       for each set identifier.  If it changes between subscriptions,
       then the last value supplied will be applied to the set.

   4.  On the last SUBSCRIPTION, the client sets the activation state
       flag to 1.  Dynamic track selection is now active for the
       switching set.

   To add a new track to an existing switching set, the client issues a
   SUBSCRIPTION and appends a SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter, with
   the Switching set ID pointing at the existing switching set.

   To remove one track from a switching set, the client unsubscribes
   from that track.

   To disable dynamic track selection for a given switching set, but
   maintain the relay's definition of the set, the client sends a
   REQUEST_UPDATE message for any one of the tracks contained within the
   switching set and attaches the SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter
   with an activate switching value of zero.

   To resume switching on a given switching set, the client sends a
   REQUEST_UPDATE message for any one of the tracks contained within the
   switching set and attach the SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter with
   an activate switching value of 1.

   To disable dynamic track selection for a given switching set, and
   remove the set from the relay, the client unsubscribes from all
   tracks in the switching set.

4.2.  Relay workflow

   1.  Upon receiving a SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter, the relay
       adds the subscription to the specified switching set, creating
       the switching set if it does not yet exist.  The Forward State of
       the subscription is set to zero.  The Set Throughput Fraction is
       stored as a property of the switching set.

   2.  Upon receiving a SWITCHING-SET-ASSIGNMENT parameter with a
       Activate switching value of 1, the relay begins active track
       selection between all the tracks assigned to that switching set.
       Active track selection implies that the relay monitors the
       incoming new groups as well as maintains an estimate of the
       throughput available in the connection.  This throughput estimate
       SHOULD be applicable over the maximum Group duration of the
       tracks being switched.

   3.  As the first Object 0 of new Group N of track T within switching
       set S arrives at the relay, the relay calculates the preferred
       track to forward from the switching set.  The preferred track is
       the track with the highest throughput threshold smaller than or
       equal to the throughput allocated to the set.  The throughput
       allocated to the set is the connection throughput estimate
       multiplied by the set throughput fraction divided by 10.  If the
       preferred track is T, then the relay sets the Forward state to 1
       for this track and to 0 for all other tracks in the switching
       set.  If no tracks in the switching set satisfy this condition,
       then all tracks are set to a Forward state of 0.  No content will
       be delivered until the decision is re-evaulated at the next Group
       boundary.

   4.  The prior step repeats at each Group boundary as long as the
       switching set contains at least one track.

   5.  The throughput threshold of any track, as well as the throughput
       fraction of the set and the activate switching state MAY be
       updated at any time via a REQUEST_UPDATE message associated with
       any of the constituent tracks within the switching set.

5.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

6.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

7.  Normative References

   [MOQT]     Nandakumar, S., Vasiliev, V., Swett, I., and A. Frindell,
              "Media over QUIC Transport", Work in Progress, Internet-
              Draft, draft-ietf-moq-transport-16, 13 January 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-moq-
              transport-16>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Authors' Addresses

   Will Law
   Akamai
   Email: 2762250+wilaw@users.noreply.github.com


   Ian Swett
   Google
   Email: ianswett@google.com


   Suhas Nandakumar
   Cisco
   Email: snandaku@cisco.com


   Mo Zanaty
   Cisco
   Email: mzanaty@cisco.com


   Victor Vasiliev
   Google
   Email: vasilvv@google.com


   Ali Begen
   Ozyegin University
   Email: ali.begen@ozyegin.edu.tr


   Zafer Gurel
   Ozyegin University
   Email: zafer.gurel@ozu.edu.tr


   Gwendal Simon
   Synamedia
   Email: gsimon@synamedia.com
